Later.

Now look at ABC.

With regard to the 819 exam, we need to be able to connect to and perform databases, QOL operations

and process query results using the GDP CPI.

We don't need to know about primary keys.

Kampong Keys, knowing how to read or write.

School is not on the exam.

Spotting syntax errors in school statements is not on the exam, and we're not expected to write school

statements either.

However, the examples that I'll be using here, it's not hard to have a high level knowledge of us

gives you confidence going into the exam, and also it helps in being able to follow the examples that

I'll be using.

JD B C, which stands for Java Database Connectivity, accesses the data as rows and columns.

A relational database organizes data into tables consisting of rows and columns.

We use SQL, which stands for Structured Query Language, to interact with a relational database.

And the examples that I'll be using here use the Dharavi database, which is from Apache.

Here is a sample relational database.

It's a banking table.

The data is organized in rows.

And then the columns are a branch called account number, customer name, customer address and balance.

So three rows and we have five columns.

The columns are known as metadata to tell you information about the data.

In other words, that one, two, three, four, five, six is the branch code.

One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight is an account number.

Very important table.

To understand that you need to know two CRUD operations which are create, read, update and delete.

So the most important thing with regard to scale for the example is that there are four types of statements

for working with data in tables.

These are known as the cloud operations.

Create, read.

Update, delete.

If you want to create, then that is the actual insert keyword that inserts a new rule into the table.

If you want to read that skill, select which retrieves data from the table.

If you want to do an update, that SQL update that changes data in zero or more rules.

And if you wanted to delete that as well, delete which delete zero or more rules from the table.

And we'll have examples of each of those coming up.

What I'd like to do now is have a look at the banking table and give an overview of how I create the

table, how I publish, because this table is used throughout my examples.

This is my banking example.

I'm using NetBeans and you can see here I've got the service tab.

I've got a bank on Discord Deep database created.

And when I connect to that, it uses Derby.

There's local horse 1527, that's the port number and there is the database.

I'm using an app schema and there you can see the bank table.

When I go right click on that execute command.

It'll come up with this view here where you can type in obscure commands.

You can see how connected there to that or be database bank underscore DB.

This particular sequence of commands.

One is to drop the table.

In other words, delete the table completely.

That obviously is going to have a problem the very first time around us, but subsequently it will remove

the table completely.

Then I'm using the creative in app.

That's the schema baked.

Here was the name of the table.

And then I have a list of columns with their data types beside them.

Var Char is like string and I'm allowing ten characters far.

If it isn't ten characters at length, var char means variable character.

It'll only use the amount of space that it needs.

Account number is essentially a string.

Ten is the max code name.

20 Cluster address, 50 balances decimal.

That's like a java double.

The primary key is the branch code and the account number combined together.

So an account number could actually be the same in two different branches, but the branch code will

differentiate between them.

Again, not necessary for the exam.

But it's no harm to know.

Then on line 13, I'm inserting my first record insert into the table values, and the values are by

default in the order that the columns are defined.

So one, two, three, four, five, six is the branch code.

Line 16 corresponds to the column on line six.

Your blogs have the cross name of Lorne as the cost address.

The balance is 300.0.

Vouchers are inserted in single quotes.

So that's the first rule that's going in.

I'll cover delimiting them.

There is another rule in wrong brackets.

That's the second rule.

And then there is the third rule.

When I run that, it recreates the table.

I go over here into my app schema, into tables that I right click on bank table and go view data.

And there you can see there is my table with the three rows and the various columns populations.

So any time I want to recreate the table after making some changes, I'll just go to that window there

and run it again.

And then I just go back to this window, rerun that, scroll to see the data in the table.

Connecting to a database here.

We have to understand the various parts of the GDP.

See u.

R.

L.

It consists of three parts, each of them separated by a colon.

The first part is the protocol and it is always good to be see.

The next part is the sub protocol and this is the vendor or product name, for example, derby, which

is the one that I'll be using or could be my well, oracle postgresql.

The sudden name.

The last part is the database connection details.

You can see I've given three valid examples here.

There you can see GWC call Colon Derby on all three.

Then I've got a local horse to call at 1527 for such a bank underscore db.

On the first one I'm including the port name on this localhost is essentially the current machine.

It's a name identifying the current machine.

Its IP address is 127.0.0.1.

The second option, I'm actually leaving the port out because it's optional when you're using localhost.

The third option is using the actual IP address of localhost.

Here is set up a piece of code connecting to the database.

Now we have interfaces and classes that are all in the Java.

That school package driver manager is the first one.

It's a factory class for creating the database connection.

The interfaces are connection, prepared statement, result, access.

And there's another one driver that I'm not using here in my constructor.

I am using the factory pattern for creating the connection.

It's driver manager dot get connection.

There's the URL.

Then there's a username and password.

Obviously you would never expose your password.

It should be loaded in from an external resource and preferably encrypted.

However, this is just a demo.

So that's why you see Sean and Sean there.

I have to catch a school exception because that is a checked exception that is drawn by the get connection

method in driver manager.

Know all of the interfaces and the required classes are in the driver jar file.

You can see a sample there where I'm running that particular application by executing it from the command

prompt and the hyphen KPIs for the class path.

Then the path to Darby.

And then Darby.

Obviously that path to Darby would be customizable to whatever your path is.

The driver manager is one of two ways of actually creating a connection.

The other one is data source.

Now in industry you would use data source.

It's far more efficient.

However, driver manager is the one that is specified for the it will need an exam and that's the one

that we'll be using as a result.

For older drivers, you might see code like closed off for him to load up the driver.

That's not needed for newer drivers.

So let me run that in code.

So I've just put in an empty main method so I don't get an error, but not having men from the environment.

And there you can see connecting to the database.

Okay.

Prepared statement, both prepared statement and callable statement are sub interfaces of statement.

We'll talk later about callable statement.

For the moment, we're just going to focus on prepared statement.

A prepared statement enables us to execute Escuela commands, structured query language commands.

We will use the connection object to get a prepared statement.

So the driver manager will give us the connection.

The connection will give us the prepared statement, and then the prepared statement enables us to execute

the cure.

Here is a sample.

I've got a string which I've initialized to some SQL syntax insiders.

Selector from app dot bank table means retrieve everything from the bank table.

We need to know that select is a retrieve.

Other than that, we're okay.

I've got to try the resource statement then whereby I am using the connection object which to prepare

statement passing in the squirrel to give us back a prepared statement.

So we use the connection object to give us the prepared statement.

I could have used the VAR Peace is a sane conduct.

Prepare a statement passing in the school string as well.

That's okay.

However, you must pass in a string to prepare a statement.

It is a compiler error to just say prepare a statement.

Open room brackets.

Clause from brackets.

Note also that we have to catch the checked exception askew, an exception which is thrown by the prepare

statement method.

Once we have the prepared statement, we can now run some as well.

However, the type of rescue well statement determines what method you use to run it.

For example, if you wanted to do a query that is a select and you would use the execute query method

on the prepared statement, and that will give you a back a result set, which is basically the data

that you want back.

If you're making a change to the database and insert an update or a delete for adding rules, changing

rules or removing rules, all of those would use the execute update method and that returns back the

number of rules affected.

However, you can do all of those operations retrieving, adding, changing, deleting and other words

select, insert, update and delete using the execute method.

What that returns back is a boolean as to whether or not you did a query.

In other words, can you go and get the results?

So in other words, if results that comes back with true, you would then go and use the get results

set on the prepared statement.

In other words, you did do a query.

Therefore, this is how you get the results.

Now.

If, however, the execute method comes back with false, then you did an update.

So you choose to get update count to retrieve the number of rules affected.

I now like to look at an example.

It's a banking example.

It'll cover those types of methods, but it'll also include buying variables, the cursor column starting

at one, the result set and so on.

So the bank example just to quickly review here is the scale that I run to create the table and insert

some records into the database.

And then when I view them, you can see they're my records.

They're.

I have a Java bean to represent the bank account.

We have strings for branch called account number, course name, cost address and a balance which is

double.

That's because the column types.

Our vouchers except for the balance, which is decimal.

So the bank account.

I've got a constructor, an overloaded one, where I pass in all the arguments I've got, get and set

methods for each of the properties and then I've got a two string at the bottom in the bank service

then.

I've got my connection, which is kept outside of all the methods.

It's a class variable, so it's available to all of the methods.

Then I connect to the database using a call to the constructor and I use the driver manager to get connection

to connect to the database.

Then in main, I'm calling each of these methods.

The first one I want to look at is retrieve one, which is going to retrieve a specific account number.

So I go down to retrieve one here and there is the call to get account details, person down the branch

code and the account number.

So here is the select one taking in the branch code and the account number, the bind variables.

This is the first time we have come across buying variables.

Here.

I'm setting up a string select as well and it's select star from APT at bank table where the branch

code is equal to the first line variable and account number is equal to the second one.

The question marks indicate the bind variables.

That's the first one, obviously, and that's the second one.

They're like a placeholder that we're going to populate at runtime.

I initialize my bank account to NULL.

I then have a out resources statement where I use the connection object prepare statement passing in

the sequel to create a prepared statement.

I then need to populate the bind variables.

I use the set string on the prepared statement to do that.

Number one is the first one they started one.

Both the BI and variables and the columns as we'll see later.

Start at one, not zero.

So I'm passing in the branch code to populate that by an variable there.

And the account number that this method receives goes into the second one, which is that one there.

I then call the execute query.

That means that the scale is a select and I will get back a result set.

That's what execute query does.

It comes back with the result set.

I now need to move the cursor to the first row because the cursor is pointing just before the first

row.

So before I can read it, I need to move it to the first row.

That's what this is statement is doing.

It calls the R.

S dot next that moves the cursor to the first rule.

If there is one.

If there is one.

Okay.

It'll come back with true.

The Nash will make it false and I will not execute the statement and I will come down to here to process

the record.

However, if there is no record, if I have an invalid branch code and or account number, the rest

up next will come back with false.

Not false will come back with true and the estimate will execute an out of return bank account which

is null online 92.

So let's assume I do have a record there, which means the statement is not executed.

We come down here to process the record.

I come to the comments from the API in a second, but notice here on line 117.

I am using a guess string.

Now this is going to go to the result set and say give me back the column branch code from this particular

record.

The second one is get string and this time I am passing in a number.

That is the account number.

Number one would be the branch called.

Number two is the account number and so on.

Gets string cost name.

Gets string cost address.

They're all because they're strings inside their vouchers inside in the database table.

That's why I'm using get string.

And that's why I used set string on lines 1999 as well.

North and online want 21 I'm using get double for the balance.

That's because it's decimal in the database.

Naughton the API there.

I've got get boolean taking in a string for the column label.

There's a get boolean that takes in an int for the column index.

Does it get double which we're using for balance already?

Column label is one we're using, but it's overloaded to take in a column index as well.

There's also the same forget it does the same forget long and get object is a little different in that

you have to pass in the class type, but it's overloaded for column level and column index if I have

an exception to take care of that as an exception.

That will be in the prepared statement that control and school exceptions.

So we need to take care of that.

Otherwise, I'll return the bank account.

So if I go back to where it was called from, which is up here, I'll just execute that on its own for

a minute.

So I should just get back the details for branch code.

One, two, three, four, five, six.

Account number one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight.

And I do job logs at loan 300.

Let's double check that.

Joel blogs at Alone 300.

Now let's have a look at retrieving all of the records.

So.

I'll go to retrieval.

So I've got a free tube here for each bank account in the get all accounts box coming back from get

all accounts.

Let's go down there.

This is where we want to select all the accounts.

So I'm creating an array list, which I'll be returning with the details.

Musical is select star from Outer Banks here, and I don't have a where clause in this case, so that's

going to give me back all of the records or the rules from the bank table.

I've just got three.

And then again passing in the school into the prepared statement which is available on the connection

object.

And that will give me back the prepared statement that I want to execute the school with.

For variation, I'm going to use the execute method and it'll come back with a boolean is result set?

I'll examine that is results that it come back with true because we did to a select.

So now that I know it was a select, I go and use the get resolve set on the prepared statement to give

me back the results says.

Again.

I need the next method on the results that the first one will position the cursor, and from then on

it'll keep going.

Eventually it'll be false and the whole statement will fail and we exit the loop.

When I am processing any record, I am going to create a bank account and I'm going to pass in these

arguments.

Get string one.

This time I used the number, the column index for the branch called whereas the get string account

number, I'm going to use the actual column level in this case cos name, cost address, there are column

labels and again get double for balance.

There are passed into the constructor where I create a bank account and then I add that bank account

to my ArrayList.

If results that came back would false, I would then output that I did an update.

There's the exception that you need to manage from the prepare statement and then I return the bank

accounts.

So let's go back up here and run that retrieval.

And there you can see there are the three records that are in the database.

Now let's have a look at deleting one record.

So here's the delete one.

I'm going to delete a bank account with that particular branch called and that account number it should

come back with one so deleted.

Okay.

Otherwise delete error.

So let's go to that method passing in the branch code and the account number.

My dreams as school is very similar to the select one where I wanted to retrieve that particular branch

called an account number, except I'm using a delete from the bank table where the branch cord is equal

to that bein variable and the account number is equal to that by and variable.

So they're placeholders that will be populated at runtime.

Again.

I need to pass in my skill into the prepared statement which is available on the connection object to

get the prepared statement.

I then need to populate the bind variables before I execute the script.

I'm going to use that string.

The first one is going to be the branch code.

The second one is going to be the account number.

Now, instead of execute query, it's going to be execute update on the prepared statement because I

am making a change to the database beer to delete, beat and insert within an update.

All of those three are considered changes to the database.

So that would come back within rules, which should be one, and I'll return that and rules if I get

an exception as an exception again, I'll put details about that.

Let's run that.

So there's the delete.

Okay.

With one record deleted.

So let's have a look at the database table.

This is the view of the table before I did the delete.

Idolises the first record.

There was the branch called one, two, three, four, five, six.

The account number.

One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight.

Now I'm about to do a refresh and that record, one should be gone.

And there you can see that record is gone.

I'll just go back to this askew old statement here at that connection there and rerun it.

And check that my database is populated again, which it is.

So then I'll go back now and I look at the delete all.

So that was the delete one.

So the delete all is very straightforward.

Delete all accounts the school is delete again from the table and is no huertas.

So it's just going to delete all of the records so you can see the delete and select quite similar set

up.

The prepared statement is the connection object and the prepare statement passing in the school and

then called execute update.

I run that.

Let's check the records and they're all gone.

Now let's look at AD.

So here I'm calling the ad account method and a person on a new bank account with details that are not

in the database.

Let me just double check what's in the database.

There's the three records of old.

If the number of rules is equivalent to one come back then put that the is okay.

Otherwise I'll put another.

So let's look at ad bank account taking in a bank account object.

Here is my insert as well.

So when you're adding you're using the insert.

Well, insert the rest of the syntax we don't have to be expert on, but it's no harm to know about

it.

So we're inserting into that table in the wrong brackets.

We provide the column names in order that we want them populate.

So I've taken the order that they're popular in the table branch called account number, course name,

cost address and balanced values.

Then in round brackets, these are the bind variables.

So that first one is going to correspond to branch code, that second one is going to correspond to

account number and so forth.

We create the prepared statement using the Conda prepare statement passing in the school again.

Now we need to populate those blind variables using the prepared statement set string method.

Remember the columns, the buying variables all start at one.

So that has to be the branch code.

That's why I'm using that branch called there to populate that first line variable to correspond with

the branch code.

The second one is the account number.

That's that second line variable.

Therefore, that needs to be the get account number for number two.

There are all set strings except for the set double because that's decimal in the database.

And over here I've got the API set boolean as a parameter index and boolean.

Set double as we saw.

Set int has a parameter index with an int afterwards.

Set long parameter index with a long and set object parameter index.

With the object we then execute update because we're making a change to the database that's going to

populate back one.

Hopefully to say we inserted one rule and then we come back and we return that.

Let's run that added one record.

Okay.

Let's check our database.

And then you can see the new record is inserted.

The last one I want to look at is an update.

First thing I'll do is reset my database table.

There you can see three records in the table.

And then we want to look at update.

So what I'm doing an update is I'm getting the details for one, two, three, four, five, six.

That's the branch code.

And one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight is the account number.

So I'll output the bank account beforehand.

Then I will change the bank account name to J blogs and the cost address to London.

What is it at the moment?

Joe Bloggs in Athlone.

So then I'm calling on line 79, the update bank account passing down the bank account with the customer

name J blogs and the course address.

London.

If the role is equivalent to one, I'm going to output that.

It worked okay.

And I'm going to go and get the details of that bank account afterwards.

So let's look at the update bank account.

So there is the scale.

Any time you're updating, it's an update.

Nice and easy to remember that one.

What table?

Bank table.

And they're going to set the cost name equal to that by and variable, the cost address to that point

variable and the balance to that fine variable where the branch code is equivalent to that fine variable

and the account number is equivalent to that by and variable.

That's because in this table, the branch code and the account number together are the comps at key.

Get the prepared statement using the conduct prepared statement passing in the esky.

Well then I'm going to set the bind variables using set string and set double respectively set string

because that's a voucher.

That's also a voucher in the database cost address, that's a decimal.

So we use that double for number three and get branch code is going to be used to populate that fine

variable, which is number four.

And then number five, which is the account number is get account number.

Again, we use execute update and that will return back the number of roles that were affected.

This should come back with one and we should see a change to that particular record in the database.

Let's run it.

And before update you can see that it was job logs and his address was at Lorne.

Now it's J blogs and it's London.

Let's just quickly checked out here.

And there you can see the course name.

And of course, the address were changed successfully.

Callable statements.

Rather than have you rescue well as prepared statements inside your Java code, which must then be sent

across the network.

We can have our rescue URL stored on the database in stored procedures.

This can be beneficial if you have many large complex queries as it can reduce network traffic.

We use callable statements when we working with stored procedures.

We do not need to be able to read or write stored procedures for the purposes of the exam, but we must

know how to call them or execute them.

In addition to having no parameters, a stored procedure can specify the following parameters in for

an input parameter out for an output parameter and enables a parameter that serves for both input and

output.

We're going to look at each of those in code.

Now let's start by looking at a store procedure that has no parameters.

As stored procedure, syntax is not on the exam.

I haven't written any.

However, I think it is helpful to understand the header part of the procedure from the point of view

of what we're doing with the callable statements.

So I've included a create procedure comment in each of these methods to help in the understanding of

the callable statement.

Note that the database stored procedure would say something like create procedure and then the name

of the procedure with wrong brackets and nothing inside there.

So in line 32, I'm defining how to call this particular stored procedure.

You use curly brackets at either end, and then you say call and then you specify the name of the stored

procedure.

Just have our own brackets because there are no parameters I'm going to use.

Try with resources here to tidy up the resources that are open and note the prepared statement.

Syntax is there just for a comparison.

To create the callable statement which we are going to need now.

We use the connection object again, but this time we use prepare call as opposed to prepare statement

we need to pass in the school.

And in this instance we're going to use execute query because we're going to get back a result set.

This particular stored procedure you can imagine is going to come back with all of the customers that

have Dublin as their address.

The wild statement on line 38 is the same as before and the exception again needs to be catered for.

So we need to look at here is the callable step and is created by using the prepare call method.

No on the connection object.

And in this case we're going to use the execute query because we want to get back a result set.

Let's specify an in parameter.

So my skill is to call read addresses.

That's the name of the store procedure this time I've got a question here.

This should be familiar enough from the bind parameters that we were looking at before with prepared

statements, the database would say something like Create the procedure, read addresses and there is

the end and it's calling it address and it's specifying it as voucher 50.

That was the size of my cost address at the very start of our char 50.

So in this case, the store procedure you can imagine is going to take in some address and return back

all of the customers that have that address.

Again we use the connection object prepare called passing in the school and we get back our call of

the step and putting it in the tray with resources so that it will be closed when finished.

I now need to do a set string.

So the one there corresponds to the question mark that's to go in and they're going to pass in Dublin.

So in this case, I want back all the customers whose address is Dublin.

The prepared statement could do that.

Also the set string with a one.

What the next one which is coming just 952 the C I start search string where you can pass in the name

of the parameter address the callable step and can do that for the prepared statement cannot do that.

And the name address is coming from the parameter name on the stored procedure.

Again, we use execute query.

To get back a result set and we use the wild artist on next to go through that particular result set.

Note that I've nested the try with resources calls because I needed to do a set string in between if

I specifying an hour from now you'll see I've got a question mark equals at the start of the string

to call the store procedure.

That is optional.

But you can see I've got my question mark again, representing the output on the database, you would

have something like create procedure.

There is the name of the store procedure and then there's the out there is the name of the parameter

and it's of type int on the database side.

Again we use the prepare call to get callable statement.

Line 69 is important this register out parameter and that's number one there represents that question

mark and we're saying it's an integer.

We need that register as a parameter for every out parameter that we have and every in out parameter

that we have.

We haven't looked at in out yet.

We'll look at that next.

We then execute it.

Now in this case, it's execute as opposed to execute query because there's no results set coming back

this time.

And then I can use to see us start get it for count.

And again, that relationship between count is what's on line 66.

I need the register o parameter online 69 in order to be able to do the get it online 71.

And lastly, let's look at the in out the string.

There is two called square number.

And that question mark represents both the in and the out parameter.

On the database side of things, you have create procedure, the name of the procedure and then it's

in out there is the name of the parameter and it's of type int.

Again prepare call on the connection object to get the call with statement.

We will now set it that one represents the input parameter going in the in part of the input and we're

giving it the value five now because we have an out aspect we need on line 84 a register of parameter.

Again, it's on the same question mark because there's only one and it's of type integer.

We then execute us and now I can do the call of the statement, get int for number, and that's why

I include the create procedure syntax online so that you can see where am I getting number from?

Resource leaks, database resources are expensive to create, so we have to make sure that we close

them off properly.

To try with resources is very helpful here as it will automatically close off resources for us.

We need to keep in mind that the order of closing off the resources is important.

The results.

That will be the first thing we need to close off.

Followed by the prepared statement or call of a statement.

Followed by the connection.

To try out resources, closes resources automatically in the reverse order from which they were initialized

and acquired is common straight from the Java language specification.

If you look at a piece of code here.

The resource, the statement, the connection object is the first object that's initialized.

Then the prepared statement.

Then the result set.

They will be closed off in the order of results at first.

Prepared statement.

Second connection.

Third.

That is the order that we want.

So the trade resources is very useful for that purpose.

In this section.

We're going to look at Iowa and New York to.

This stand has taken on the jive 11 100819 topics.

So we're going to read and write the console and file data using IO streams in this particular section.

IO is the first bit.

The first section relates to Java IO package and it's called Java IO fundamentals.

The second section relates to that North Star Packages and is called New Order to New Order two relates

to the key features introduced in Java seven, which reside in two packages New Order file and neo dot

attributes.

Java IO Fundamentals.

Java reads and writes characters or bytes classes with stream in their name, reads and writes binary

data.

For example file input stream file output stream object input stream and object output stream.

Typically, you're looking at images or executable files in this case.

Readers and writers are used to read and write text.

Classes such as file reader, buffered reader, file writer, buffered writer and print writer.

And here we're talking about creating or reading text funds which contain character or string data.

File is the class that enables you to create objects from which you can then create actual physical

files on the hard disk.

Many of the previous classes are intended to be wrapped.

This enables low level classes to get access to higher level functionality.

This is used for efficiency, for example, buffering.

So this would be an outline of the classes that you'll be seeing in the code.

Examples.

You've got the abstract classes down on the left hand side input stream, output stream, reader and

writer.

So you have the byte data, the binary data and the first two, and you have the character data and

the second to the low level classes, then file input stream, file, output, stream, file reader

and file resources.

Just prepare and file in front of the abstract class name.

If you're talking with the high level classes for efficiency, the buffered ones, then all you've got

to do is put buffered in front of the abstract class name.

So that's buffered input stream, buffered output stream, buffered reader and buffered right here.

There are other high level classes available like object input stream which will be used for streaming.

And there is an example on the right new object input stream wrapping a new file input stream.

And then there is the name of the file object output stream, print stream and there is an example of

new object output stream wrapping a new file output stream.

Input Stream Reader is a bridge between byte streams and character streams, whereas output stream writer

is a bridge between characters streams and byte streams going the other way.

And then there are some examples there of readers.

You've got you buffered reader and that's wrapping and you file reader got a new buffered reader which

is also wrapping and you input stream reader.

So it's very flexible like that.

And then for the writer, you've got New Bedford writer, which is wrapping and you find writer.

And then you've got new Buffett writer, which is rapping a new output stream writer.

Again, a very flexible system that in a system that out there they refer to the keyboard and the console

respectively.

Let's have a look at these in code.

In the reading, writing examples, I'm going to have two methods copy, text, file and copy binary

file and whether or not the use buffering is dependent on the boolean that I'll pass into the method

invocation.

For example, on 916 I will copy a text file, but false means I will not be using buffering, whereas

online 17 I will be using buffering.

So let's have a look at the copy text file, which starts on line 21.

I've got two files.

Source and test.

Now I'm using absolute addressing here.

So I have to give the full path as to where this is on my windows machine.

You'll note that the backslash has to be escaped, otherwise you're going to get a problem.

Otherwise, if you said backslash capital you java thinks well, is this a special escape sequence?

And I'll say, No, it's not.

I don't recognize it.

So you have to escape the backslash.

So when jarvis's backslash backslash it realizes, oh, that's just the backslash.

I'll leave it alone now.

It'll escape it.

That's going to map out.

Where is that file on my hard disk.

Reading.

Writing examples that Java is the source one and the file name of the destination is reading writing

examples too.

So we're going to use the tri with resources here because it has an inbuilt clause which will flush

the buffers out to the hard disk.

So anything that might be kept in the buffers will be written out.

That's part of the clause procedure.

So we want these auto plausible to be closed and buffered.

Reader and buffer driver bullet implement that.

So that's fine.

So I've got of our reader and of our writer and I'm using a file reader pointing at the source file

and I'm wrapping it in a buffer reader and I'm using the file writer, which is looking at the dest

file.

It is wrapped in a buffer writer for efficiency.

Again, unlike 29, if I am buffering.

The key here is that in line 33.

Buffered reader has a read line.

That is specific to Buffett Reader.

It's going to reading the whole line in one go rather than reading it in one bite at a time.

It reads in the whole line.

Now it does strip out the end of line character, so we will have to cater for that.

Oh 931 I declare a string as TR and I set it to note while this SDR, which is assigned the result of

the reader diary line, while it's not equal to null, so null is the return value from buffered reader

read line to say okay, I've got to the end of the stream, or in this case the end of the file.

That's the end.

Don't go reading any more.

Read in a read line into SDR and then we'll use the right to output it to the destination, which is

the writer w TR And then I'm going to put in the new line at the end because as I said earlier, the

read line strips out the end of line character.

So we need to put that in so that when we look at the destination file, it won't all just be one horizontal

line of text.

It'll all have just as you see it here, there's carriage returns or new lines put in at the end of

each line, so you can read it very easily.

The else on line 37, it's if we are not doing any buffering, what does that mean?

We're going to read in one bite at a time.

It is an int as opposed to a base because Java wants to use minus one to signal the end of stream.

That's what they decided put in minus one as the end of the stream.

So minus one.

While it is a valid byte value the actual characters that you could be reading in.

If you look at the ASCII table at the start of the Unicode, all of those bytes, none of them are negative.

They're all zero upwards.

So minus one is very specific to being the end of the stream, end of the file.

So it's B while B which is assigned the reader that read is not equal to minus one.

So I read an invalid byte.

Then I'll write out that byte to the w tr which is the writer representing our file writer.

So that is the copying of the text file.

So let's go up here into man and we will run that.

So in this case, I have buffering turned off and I'll run it.

Okay.

So we're looking for the Java file and there you can see there it is after being created and it has

the end of line characters in it.

So I'll delete that.

And now let's go back and run it again.

This time we will run with buffering.

Now, from our perspective, it'll look just the exact same and just recreate the file.

It's just more efficient.

And there you can see it has been recreations again.

Now let's turn our attention to the binary.

So we're going to copy a Java class file.

Copy the binary file which is down here.

And again, the boolean is for buffering.

Now I'm making one or two changes just to various a little bit.

The first change of making is that I'm going to use the forward slash instead of the backslash.

Now this means I do not have to escape it.

You do have to skip the backslash, but you do not have to escape the forward slash.

And the second change is that I'm going to use a relative path instead of an absolute path.

So you'll see the dot, for example, being used there that indicates the current directory in order

to know the current directory.

I'm not putting the working directory using the system.

Don't get property passing in user doctor.

Then I've got a source in the destination I'm using relative addressing here now.

So when you realize what my current working directory is, it means projects Udemy.

Then you can see here that the data represents the current directory online.

53 Then we go to target classes, let's get certified IO reading rating example start class.

That's the source.

So the classes and then we build on the package name.

Let's get certified which is my YouTube channel forward slash your reading right example start class.

Then I've got a destination file which is just going to be reading ratings outputs to that class.

Again, I'm going to use try with resources here so that it has the auto clause in for me and I'm using

a file input stream wrapped by a buffered input stream and a file output string wrapped by a buffered

output stream.

And the file input stream is wrapping the source file and the file output stream is wrapping the destination

file.

Now if it's buffering.

Then I'm going to create a buffer of one or two for the kilobytes, the number of bytes read.

Well, we'll see what we use that in a minute.

Now that int while the number of bytes read which is assigned the input read, passing the data into

the buffer is greater than zero.

So while I read in something into the buffer and what we want to do, we're going to do an outer right

of the buffer starting at index zero and the number of bytes that we have read and we're going to flush

that out to the hard disk.

So in other words, it keeps it in a buffer.

We want to flush it out to the hardest just in case the program will crash and the buffer data would

not be written out to the file.

What we're doing here with the number by thread is basically, as I say in the comment on line 64,

as the file is unlikely to be an exact multiple of one or two four bytes, the number of bytes read

helps us to write out exactly the number of extra bytes above that multiple.

So let's say the file is two or five eight bytes in size.

Well, we'll go around the first time, one or two four and write that a second time.

One or two for.

Okay.

That's two or four days.

So then the last time it'll be just ten bytes is what will write ups.

That's what that's about.

Rather than write out one or two, four plus one or two, four plus one or two four.

So the ls then online 71.

Well, we're not doing the buffering here.

Similar idea reading in one bite at a time.

Again, the interviews for minus want to signal that we've reached the end of the stream.

So let's run that.

Copy the binary file.

And I'm turning off buffering initially.

Classes directory.

There you can see.

There it is.

So I'll delete it and I'll go back in here.

And I wrote it again this time and have boyfriend turned on.

Again, this is just for efficiency.

Underneath with the operating system, from our perspective, we'll see a file being created both times

and there it is created again when I want to have a look at the console class, which is specifically

designed for interacting with the user.

It is a singleton where you use a factory method to create the one and only one instance.

The constructors are all private, thus you never knew the console.

If you see that it's a compiler error straight away.

Let's have a look at the console in code and we'll examine some methods that are popular with it.

There you can see on line it.

I'm creating the console by using the system console command.

Note that it's not new.

If the console is equivalent to null, you have to check that because often ideas will grab the council

and they won't give it up.

So we're going to test this program from the command line.

You know put system that our is to the error console which is essentially going to be the screen that

will say console not available.

Otherwise we can say console that read line and you can pass in a string which is formatted.

So you can see there is a percent s and then name is the string that will be plugged in there.

So you're saying plug the string name in there where a percent s appears.

So that will read in a line as well into the name.

So it's a prompt.

So someone at the console types in their name and hits return and then the string name is populated

on line 12.

Line 13, you've got the farmer's method.

Hello there.

And presenters will refer to whatever is in that name variable which is a string.

Percent as means is string present and means puts in the carriage return or a new line afterwards.

So if I type in Sean online 12, it'll come up with Hello there, Shawn.

Line 14 is the print method where I'm passing in the welcome as a string.

Now I could pass in other arguments after that, but it's a virus, so zero is actually valid.

Console.

The writer will give us back the writer and I can open a blank line by saying console that writer does

print Alan.

A popular one for the console is the reed password.

Now this always returns a character.

It does not return a string because that would mean the string.

Your password, in other words, could hang around in the string pool and a hacker could get out.

That does not happen in the character array.

So what can I pass into the reed password where you can see a string and again there's placeholders

the percent as they're twice and I'm passing in four and ten.

So four went to the first one and ten we're going to the second one.

So you get a prompt.

Enter the password between four and ten characters.

Let's call the read password a second time.

Passing in verified password.

There's no need for any arguments other than that.

And now what we'll do is we'll check to see are the equal using.

The arrays are equal.

So what's the password and password again are the equal come back with a boolean and if it's true then

we'll output to the console using the print of the passwords match.

Otherwise we'll output at the passwords do not match.

So I'm going to run this from the command line.

So you can see here in the black rectangle, I'm invoking the JVM.

So it's java space.

I fancy P is to say, okay, I'm changing the class path where I'm going to use this class path.

Now this is the top of the package hierarchy that I am providing next.

You can also put in semicolons and elongate as is, make it longer to put in jar files and so on.

But for this particular run, I want that to be the class pad, because what will happen is the second

part of this is that the file name?

This is where you have to specify the package name.

Which is part of the actual type.

So if you don't do that, it's not going to find it here.

So if you look at point three.

The JVM essentially just pulls them together and says, okay, it's going to start looking at the target

classes.

That's what's going to start working from and then it's going to build up.

Let's get certified that I'll that console test onto that.

So I'll build that directory structure onto it because that's what let's get certified that I oh that's

the package name and it works from there.

So let's look at it from the command line then.

So here you can see I'm just about to hit return.

That's the.

Texts that you saw on the word document.

Please enter your name.

John.

Hello there, Sean.

Welcome.

And to the password between four and ten.

A.

B.

C.

D.

E.

F.

Verify it.

A.

B.

C.

D.

E.

F.

And the passwords match.

I run it again.

A.

B.

C.

D.

E.

F.

Palo Alto IP LP.

The passwords do not match.

So the password is very useful.

Just an echo as you type in and stored in a character array and don't ever knew the console.

It's a singleton where you system console to create all the constructors of private.

Now that we've dealt with the legacy failure now let's look at and I neo dust two and I order two is

a more powerful API than the legacy Java that I oh that file class.

The path interface is central to neo to know if that path objects are immutable.

If the path interface this interface replaces file as the representation of a file or a directory,

it is a lot more powerful than file.

You know, the parts class.

This is a utility class which contains static methods to create path objects.

These objects implement the path interface.

You've also got the files utility class, which contains static methods for working with path objects.

In other words, these methods take path objects as parameters.

Let's have a look at these in practice.

You can see a nice three and four, the two inputs that I need to have now that follow that path and

dot parts in the main method I'm just outputting on like nine.

What is my current working directory?

By using the system, don't get property passing in user dir.

This is a windows machine and you can see there that its netbeans projects forward slash Udemy.

In Java 11.

You've got a path that all of this is a new way of creating a path object.

The more traditional way on line 22 would be to use the path start catch.

So I'll be mixing them up as I go along to expose you to both styles.

Let's look at lines 12 to 14.

I'm creating three path objects therapy.

One, two, three.

The first one is using a relative path and I'm using the forward slash.

That's okay.

The forward slash does not need to be escaped.

However, online 13.

You see that?

I'm using the backslash.

The backslash does need to be escaped, otherwise you get a compiler or it'll be treated as an escape

sequence.

So let's look at it.

We actually do want to treat it as an escape sequence.

Backslash.

Backslash is an escape sequence that maps to that in the background.

Obviously, we've got a problem now because backslash l is not a valid escape sequence.

If I were to replace that with backslash n or backslash t, you'd see the job is not going to complain

because it knows that these two characters together form a valid escape sequence.

We want the backslash to be left alone, so we have to escape it.

So in other words, talk or treating backslash g as an escape sequence.

Treaties do together.

That is a valid escape sequence which maps to the backslash.

So the second part there that we're looking at on line 13 is, in fact, an absolute path on Windows.

You've got to see column backslash root.

And then on line 14, we've got an absolute path on Linux or a mac.

We've got the backslash at the very start of the string.

Line 12.

It's a relative path because there is no backslash at the start of that string.

So that's considered relative to the current directory that we are in, which would be Udemy.

Now these are all logical paths.

These files do not have to exist on the hard disk for the path object to be created successfully or

not.

We'll see that in the next example.

Lines 17 to 19 are the exact same as lines 12 to 14.

Except now we're using the var Arabs version passed out of the overloaded to take in a virus.

So rather than put it in as one string as on line 12, we're putting in as a var args on line 17 and

GC is the first string and logo that PNG and Java will build.

The string that you see on line 12.

As a result from that.

Line 18.

You've got the C column as the root.

And Java would build the string that you see on line 13.

It'll build that from what you're passing in in virus online 18 and then like 19 is the equivalent of

line 40.

Now let's look at the older style, the pat start gas.

That is the exact same equivalent.

What you see on lines 22, 24 is the same as what is being created online at 12 to 14.

The relative Pats is the first one.

Then there's an absolute pattern Windows and then there's another path in Linux and Mac.

This is using the path that gas as opposed to the path of.

And then we're using the parts that get again using the var args.

So lines 12 to 14 is a path sort of version.

Lines 22 to 24 is the path start get equivalent.

Lines 17 to 19 is using the advanced path thereof.

And then lines 27 to 29 is the past start guess using virus equivalent of that if I run that.

I get no errors there, even though those files do not exist.

Let's look at some path operations.

I'm going to invoke path in for passing down a particular path.

Now, this particular file does exist to palm that x amount.

Again, I have to escape the backslash so there don't get any compiler in my strength and I'm using

path shortcut to create a pat on line nine.

So 913 I called the two string that just outputs the two string.

I've got a commentary representing the execution of this method.

From line nine.

There is a guest name count that counts up the number of name elements.

Note that Rouge is not a name element and we'll see that in line 22 because I get an exception.

If I call, pass that off with the backslash and then I'll get name zero.

So we'll output all of the name albums as a get named count to tell us how many name elements, and

then there's a get name with a valid index for that.

So users is zero as Kennedy is one, documents is two, NetBeans Project is three, utomi is four and

Honda recommends five 0 to 5 is six name elements.

July 19.

Get the file name that gives you the file name at the very end.

Be it a directory or be as a file member.

Directory is a file.

So that is the last part of the path that's coming in.

Get parent gives you everything except the file them.

So I've got second backslash users as Kennedy documents NetBeans projects you dummy get root in line

21 is sequel on vaccination.

There you can see the path that of online to where to get them zero.

I'll try that in a second.

Forcing the league an arrogant exception.

In other words, get them zero if you're only passing in the route as your path is an exception.

Lines 24 to 26 demonstrate the subpar parts.

This gives you some parts of the path.

Now the way to look at this part is how many elements do we want?

Of the subplot.

You take the second index and you subtract the first one.

So we want three -0 elements.

What index are we starting with?

Index zero.

So take three elements starting from index zero.

That's users as Kennedy.

And again, we're not start with the root.

This is start with index zero, which is users.

Line 25 we want four minus one elements starting it index one.

So that's as Kennedy documents napkins projects then line 26.

We want three minus two elements, which is one element what index we starkness index to.

So that's documents.

Is it an absolute path?

Yes, it is.

Because we're starting with see call backslash.

So let's run that one.

So there's the two string of the pet get name count is six users as Kennedy documents is three, NetBeans

projects is four, Udemy is five and Palm the next email is six.

Get them zero is users one as Kennedy two documents, three napkins projects for you, Demi and five

as part of X amount.

The file name is Palm that x amount and the get parent is everything bought from that x amount get root

sequel backslash two So pat zero come at three.

We want three elements starting at index zero that's users as Kennedy documents so pat one come a four

we want four minus one which is three elements starting at index one that's as Kennedy documents NetBeans

projects and then so path to come three we want three minus two elements, which is one element starting

an index, two, which is just documents.

Is it an absolute path?

Yes, it is.

Because we're starting with C column backslash.

Let's go back and forth that exception.

So if I say okay.

We want to see.

Can we get the name?

Of zero that prompt there is so passed it of creates a valid path is just got the root but getting him

zero is an illegal argument exception.

Let's run that.

And there you can see a legal argument.

Exception brings us to that line there.

So that is an exception.

Now, let's run it with a relative, Pat.

And this directory structure does not exist.

ABC d e f g h i j k l.

And let's run it.

So there's the twisting of the path.

ABC slash ATF slash GJ slashed.

You can know it at the backslash.

Backslash has been translated to just one single backslash.

That sort escaping it does get name count as four.

That's correct.

Zero is ABC want the F to g h i and get them three is your care.

Now you're going straight to the start here for zero because there is no roost in this particular two

relative path name.

That's why is absolute is false at the end.

Okay.

It's not an absolute address.

It's a relative address to get file name is the last one, be it a directory or a farnum j k l could

be either it parents everything both that.

So it's a b c d e f g h I get Ruth comes back with null in a relative pad.

So pad zero come in three is abcdefghi1 come four is d f g h i j care and to come in three is give us

one element.

Start starting good index 2012.

That's G hedge i.

Let's look at some more path operations that we can form here.

We're going to do copying, deleting and moving.

So my current directory is the Udemy one.

I'm creating three path objects.

They're on lines 14 to 16.

Know that these are just creating logical paths.

These are just objects.

There is nothing created on 914 to 16 on the hard disk.

The line 14 is near or to forward slash.

Source text GAN Because it's not a backslash.

I don't need to escape it.

Line 15 is an iota for such target that text and line 16 is now too forward slash target to text.

Line 18.

I'm going to use the files that create directories passing in the path that's returned from parts that

get near to my.

That is a relative directory that'll be created.

Create directories allows you to create a directory and any subdirectories that may be required.

So it's very useful like that.

There is a files that create directory as well, but files that create directories will create all subdirectories

underneath that.

If I were to pass in for example.

That type of structure.

It would do that.

Nyota is not on the hard disk at this moment, so that will create that online waiting on the hard disk.

919 fires that exist source at the moment that is going to come back with false so we're using the fires

that exist to see is there a file in near to the subdirectory that relative subdirectory after you Demi

called source that text there isn't.

So we'll get out to the LS which is a 927 create file files dot create file passing in that source path.

Now that would create a file on the hard disk it will be empty line.

20 years is a fuzzy copy to copy the source to the target.

Now with two files we have a source and we have a target file, both of which are empty.

929 is files that move targets to target two.

That's like a rename.

Now we have the source and target two files and then we go to go files.

Delete Target two.

Now we've only got the source file left.

So this is an example of the various methods that are available to you.

So let's run it.

So we should have an now or two subdirectory off your Debian inside there a source text.

Let's check that there is the now or two and there is the source text.

Let's go back and rerun it this time.

The established line 19 will be true because the files that exist will come back saying Oh yeah, there

is a subdirectory now or two and there is a source that text file in there.

Now a copy here.

I'm going to use the files that copy north on line 2020 122.

I've put in a comment here with regard to the fact that if the source of the target which I'm doing

on 922, if there were directories, they're not.

But if they were, then this will be a shallow copy.

What does that mean?

It means that the files and subdirectories within the source directory would not be copied.

We will perform a deep copy where the whole tree is copied, will use streams for that and we'll do

that in the example later.

Slide 23 Files A copy source to target.

I'm passing in a standard copy option replace existing.

So if the file the target is already existing then it will not throw an exception.

It'll overwrite.

If it already exists, it'll over rice or otherwise.

If I left off that standard copy option to replace existing, I would get an exception faster moving

in 24, then moves to target again.

It's a rename to Target two.

So now what we'll have is the source and target two files when we run.

And with no exception.

And now there you can see there is the source and target two files in the subdirectory now or two of

Udemy, which is the current working directory resolving a path to concatenate two path objects.

Together we will use the resolve method.

So you need to remember when you concatenating you use the resolve method.

So resolve concatenate.

You can remember with the RC.

Randy Crawford resolve to be certified Roman Catholic, whatever way you can remember that.

Resolve is concatenation.

So you would say a path wound up resolved and you pass in path to.

That means that you've got to concatenate path to onto path one or more correctly speaking, we are

resolving path to within path one.

Resolve does not check whether the paths exist on the hard disk.

Essentially you're just working with strings and if an absolute path is passed in, then that path,

the absolute path, is simply returned.

Let's have a look at some examples in code to further explain this.

So lines 8 to 10, I have three different path objects.

I'm using paths that get a path sort of to create these.

I've got an absolute 19899, I've got a relative one and I've got an actual file on line ten.

Line 12 and 13 is an absolute start resolved relative.

So we are essentially just depending on the relative path onto that absolute one.

So the absolute path is all the way up to Udemy.

And then we append on Neo two, which is the relative one lines, 14 and 15.

We are resolving the file path within the absolute one.

So essentially we just depend on the file onto the absolute so named.

A text goes on to the sequel users as kind of Kennedy documents NetBeans projects Udemy.

What if we resolve the file path within the relative path?

Well, you get now two backslash name dot text, you append on the file path, which is named a text

onto the other of one, which is now two and Java puts in the backslash between them.

Lines 19 to 25.

You are resolving an absolute path within anything that just returns the absolute path.

So lines 2021, we are resolving the absolute path within the relative path that just gives you back

the absolute path.

Any time you're passing in an absolute path as the parameter, as the argument, you just get back the

absolute path.

Same happens with lines 22, 23.

We're trying to resolve the absolute path within a five.

Absolute path is just returned.

And then lines 24, 25.

We're passing the absolute path again to the resolve, which means we just get back the absolute path.

It doesn't matter what is the type of path that we are executing resolve on.

Once the argument going in is an absolute path, that's all you get back.

Lines 20 years to 33.

More interesting.

Here I create two different parts.

One looks like a directory and the other looks like a file.

However, that dir could in fact be a file.

An escaped text on line 29.

That could be a directory.

That is what I've done.

I've created them like that.

So when you have, for example, lines 32, 31, p one that resolve P two, it just depends on escaped

text onto Dir.

But if it's p two to resolve p one.

Well, Java doesn't check to see if these are files on the hard disk.

It's working with essentially the strings that are inside those path objects.

So you've got essentially that text to resolve the Dir and all Java can do there is append it on.

Because it's clear that text could be a directory, which it is.

And there could be a file, which it is.

And let's show that there you can see as clear that text is a directory and it's got a text document

called Der Inside That.

So that's all that Java can do with touch.

So let's go back in on it.

So there you can see absolute dust resolved, relative just puts now or two onto the absolute one which

ends on Udemy.

When we do absolutely resolve the file which is named a text, it just depends it on to the end there

of Udemy and relative.

That resolve file just puts name dot text on to the neo two, which is the relative path.

Then when we put in the absolute three times, all we get back is the absolute each time and we can

see dirt resolve as text is to as a text.

And then when we do ask the text are resolved or it's asking the text.

DA Relative izing apart, the relatively easy method constructs a relative path from one path to another

one.

As with resolve, the parts need not exist on the hard disk.

Let's look at this.

If both parts are relative, then relative size assumes that both parts are in the same current working

directory and it works from there.

If the paths are both absolute, then relative size ignores this current working directory and calculates

the relative path from one to the other.

If the parts are mixed.

In other words, one is relative and the other is absolute.

You're going to get an exception from runners relatives.

Note that a file itself counts as one level.

This will be clear in the examples.

Let's have a look at the examples.

So let's look at the relative parts method.

On lines 14 and 15.

I'm creating two path objects there.

One, using paths that get the other using path that of both of these are just logical paths.

There is no cat in the text in the current working directory and there is no firm subdirectory with

a horse dot text in there.

So these are two relative paths.

Both are assumed to be in the same current working directory.

So online 19.

I said p one.

Otherwise p two.

That is asking the question how do I get from p want p to and remember that a file itself is one level.

So if I'm ap1 cat of the text, I need to get out of that.

So that means I need a dot dot because that's one level.

Then I'm going to farm horses dot text.

So that's what the answer is there on line 19.

If I reverse it p to the relatively few one how do I get from P to two?

P one?

Well, if I'm in firm horses, that text, I need to get out of Horace's text.

I need to get out of farm.

Therefore, I need a dot dot slash start and then I go into cattle dot text that if the two paths are

relative, let's look at an example where the two paths are absolute line 25.

I create an absolute path.

Line 26 I create another absolute path one using path to get the other using path of.

Then in like 20 years I use people in that relative to loan 29 I used to do that P to travel advice

people.

So like 20 years, how do I get from P1 to P2 when both parts are absolute?

Well, if I'm in C column, backslash cattle dot text, I need a dot dot to get out of that cat and

text that brings it back to C call and backslash.

And then I need to put out a whole firm horse dot text.

Peer to peer otherwise p one.

If I'm in school and backstage home firm passes the text, I need to get out of horses to text.

I need to get out of firm.

And I need to get out of home.

I present back to the roof and then I just need to point to cattle that text.

So that's the answers to those was let me run that.

And there you can see the answers to those.

And then if we mix them up, I'm going to guess an exception.

So it doesn't matter which one, P1 or P2 is the relative, which is an absolute.

Once they're mixed up, there's going to be an exception.

And there you can see a legal argument exception.

Normalizing a path to normalized method removes unnecessary redundancies in a path so that it resembles

what you would normally type in.

Dot dot refers to the parent directory and thus any directory followed by dot dot can be removed from

the path.

And if you look at the first image here, I'm in the directory c call an eclipse and I go into CD change

directory into the read me directory.

Now I'm in the C call an eclipse read me directory and I do see the dot dot that brings me back out

of the read me folder into the c call an eclipse.

And that's the same as CD.

Read me.

Backslash dot dot.

So you can see now when I do change directory into read me and then I've got the backslash dot dot.

It's leaving me any tips because intrigued me and then it comes back out.

So that's one of the redundancies that can be removed.

The other one is the dust is refers to the current directory and thus any dot followed by the forward

slash or the backslash escaped can be ignored.

And that's the second image here.

Again, I'm in the eclipse directory and I do see the dust backslash.

Read me.

That is going to bring me into the read me folder.

I do CD dot dot to get back out of it to go into the eclipse folder and I can do a CD read me that brings

me into the read me folder.

So CD dot backslash read me is the same as c d read me and therefore the dot backslash is redundant.

Normalize is useful when comparing different parts.

That's where it's used a lot.

Let's look at some code examples.

So normalized examples.

In man online age, I'm creating a path.

Which is a relative path.

I've got a date for such X, for such Y, for a slash dot dot and then or it's a shan't text.

Now the dot for a slash at the start will be removed to simplify it, giving you just x and then the

Y for its nature.

Dot, dot, that can be simplified because that's a redundancy as well.

You just leave it out.

You're going into Y and then you're coming back out.

So you end up with X for it slash shortcut, text or backslash depending on the system.

This is a window system, so it's giving me the backslash in the output.

911.

We're doing a part sort of where we're putting in an absolute pat.

Forward slash X for slash y for save start date for slash z.

So the y and the dot dot can be removed and you end up with backslash.

X backslash is that line 14 and line 15 are the same.

It's a path out of where you have a.4/a are a dot backslash backslash, a need to escape the backslash.

If we normalize that, we just end up with a.

Because essentially the dot forward slash is just removed or the dot backslash is just removed.

Lining it in or creating a path with the dart dart for such acts for such while.

I know the issue here is that there is no directory preceding.

So when we go to normalize this, it can't be simplified any further.

If there was a directory before like we had online is the y was removed.

But in this case there is none before.

So nothing can be done to simplify it.

There's no redundancy there.

So normalize just gives you back what you've passed in, which is dot dot.

For such x for such y are backslash x backslash y online 22 we create an absolute path a for such b

forward slash ..4 such ..4 such y.

Line 23, we create a path which is far expected by which is the last part of the path created on line

22 when we normalize P five, you notice that the first dot dot gets you out of B, that removes B,

the second dot dot removes A and you end up with four slash exact y, which is the exact same as p six.

So in normalized p six we get backslash x dot y.

Name used for such and such interchangeably.

Here I'm putting in four slashes in the pads when it's outputting on the windows system.

I get in the backslash.

When I call in equals online, 26 is p five equal to p six.

No, they're not.

The strings are different.

However, when you normalize p five and then check, is it equal to the normalization of P six?

That is correct.

It comes back with true.

So let's run that.

And there you can see the output there.

Now we want to look at file attributes.

File attributes are fine.

Metadata is data about a file that is not stored as part of the contents.

For example, the size of the file is an attribute.

I want to talk about files here.

I'm talking about regular files, hidden files, directory files and so forth.

The files.

Utility class contains several methods for determining file attributes.

If you need to read several attributes, then rather than making several method calls, you can, in

a single method call, obtain a view, which is a group of released attributes.

There are three views.

You've got the basic file attribute view, which is a basic set of attributes which are common across

all file systems.

The dust file attribute view, which is for DOS or Windows Systems.

And then you've got the POSIX file attribute view.

Puzzled stands for Portable Operating System Interface, and we're talking then about Unix, Linux or

MAC Systems.

Let's have a look at these in code.

Let's look at attributes.

First of all, I'm going to call a method called check attributes passing in the path.

The first time I'm going to create a path to a normal regular file and output its attributes.

And the second time I'm going to pass in a directory both of these files, the regular file and the

directory exist.

The files.

Utility class is very useful here for finding the attributes of the path.

I can use online 20 is directory 21 is the regular file is symbolic link online 2223 is readable is

relatable online 24 alone 25 is executable.

All of those will come back with a boolean, true or false as to whether the particular path in question

is a directory, regular file, etc. etc. there don't throw an exception.

However some other ones do like is hidden online 28 throws an Iowa exception size throws no exception

online 29 and get last modified time throws an exception as well.

That's on line 30 now.

It's not very legible to get last modified time.

It comes back with a file time and I convert that to two milliseconds.

The two milliseconds is the number of milliseconds since the epoch and you can see the epoch common

fare in like 21 that is midnight on the 1st of January 1970.

That's not very legible either from the point of view of putting a large number a long.

But we can convert that to something far more readable by using the file timed out from milliseconds,

we pass in the number of milliseconds from the epoch.

This is online 33, and then we convert that to an instant, and once we have it as an instant, we

can zone that instant using the ad zone, passing in the zone that I'm currently in, which is Dublin,

in Ireland, in Europe.

And then I can output that.

And you can see there it's coming up with the fifth of the fifth, 2022 at 952 in the morning.

And then you can see the plus one for Europe slash Dublin because we are one hour ahead of GMT, UTC,

Zulu time because we move the clocks forward for summer time.

So let's run that.

And you can see the first one, the attributes that Java, which is the Java file, is a directory,

nor is it a regular file.

Yes.

Is it a symbolic link?

No.

Is it readable?

Yes.

Is it right?

Yes.

Is it executable?

Yes.

Is it hidden file?

No.

What's the size?

1936 bytes and get the last modified time that comes back with a long.

But when we do some formatting on converting it into a legible date and time, you can see there that

we have a days and a time separated by T and then you've got the plus one hour because we're one hour

from GMT, then we pass in a directory and it's essentially the same details, except that you'll notice

that it's not an irregular file, it's false.

And also the is directory comes back with true.

That's what I passed in that one for, just to demonstrate the difference there.

Let's have a look at the view here.

I'm going to be doing two things.

I'm just going to be reading it, which means I can just go with the files, read attributes as the

comment says, online 12.

But then I'm going to change the last modified time.

In order to that, I need to call the files that get attribute view.

I need to actually call that method, first of all.

And then I'm going to use the basic file attribute view read attributes.

That's the on online 22.

So the subtle difference in both approaches, the path I'm going to be passing in is the attributes

that Java that's on line 13.

Then on line 15, I'm going to get the basic file attributes using the false start read attributes,

passing in the path and asking for the particular attributes that I want, which is the basic file attributes

you put in the class.

That's how you tell Java that you want the basic file attributes.

Now that I have that particular basic file attributes I can call the is directory is regular file is

a symbolic link size and last modified time.

So there's only one method call there.

Whereas in the previous program we had several method calls to get that particular data, those attributes

back, get that metadata back.

Is directory comes back with false executive file is true is a symbolic is false there is a size one,

two, three, six.

And the last modified time when I ran this for was the fifth of the fifth at all 925 and there's a Z

at the end there on line 20 that gives you indication that this is a Zulu timestamp, UTC, GMT timezone.

Now let's go and change.

The first thing I want to do is call the false start, get attribute view, passing in the path with

the basic file attribute view.

So the subtle difference here, I'm looking for a view now this time because I want to change it.

Whereas basic file attributes class was all it passed in like 15.

Now online 23 and passing in basic file attribute view the class that causes the basic file attribute

view.

And then with that reference, I can call the read attributes.

So I'm not using the files to read attributes.

In this case on I 24, I'm using the basic file attribute view read attributes that gives it back basic

file attributes.

Now what I'm going to do here is I'm going to change the last modified time.

I'm going to add on 30 minutes.

So I'm calculating that in milliseconds, 1000 milliseconds in a second, 60 seconds in a minute.

Multiply that by 30 for 30 minutes, then I'm going to use the file time data from milliseconds.

And I'm going to pass in to that the attributes that last modified times that we can bring back the

last modified time.

I convert that to milliseconds and then I will add on to 30 minutes in milliseconds.

So that gives me a less modified time as a file time, which is the way you have to pass it in in the

set times on 928.

The set times online 28 takes in three file time references.

One is for the last modified time.

The second one is for the last access time, and the third one is for the creation time.

Now, if you're not changing any of them, you pass in NULL and Java will leave them as they are.

So I'm passing in the last modified time because I want to change it.

So the last modified time should be 30 minutes past what we just retrieved online.

20.

So now I'm going to say online 30 let's read the attributes again using the files dot read attributes

again basic file attribute start class.

And then I'm just going to get the view that last modified time.

And you can see here when I run it the last time the timestamp was 955, which is 30 minutes after the

925, which you read on line 20.

But let's run it again.

And all I want to make sure of is that the second timestamp is 30 minutes after the first one and it

is 1025 and 1055.

So again, is directories files is regular files, true is symbolic, it is false and there is the size.

So that was reading the attributes as a group, as a view.

They're all related.

So it seems at the time of making several calls, several independent calls, you make one call and

then you just interrogate what you've got back.

Another useful feature from the files utility class is the lines method, which takes in a path and

gives you back a stream which you can then process.

Now in the stream section, we did this particular example, so if you want to skip by a certainly can,

it's 3 minutes long.

You can stream from a file and the files dart lines method is going to be important here.

It takes in a path and then it returns a stream of string which represents a stream of the lines from

the file.

We'll go to use the for each method, which is a terminal operation to kick all that off.

And then the for each, like the one with the collections it takes in a consumer.

So we have a for each in the collections and we have a for each in stream.

Here we have a simple class cast and then we have the text file where the name of the cat and the color

of the cat are separated by a slash.

Fido is black, lily is white.

This is the output that we're going to generate, which is the cat.

That's the name of the cat and that's the color of the cat.

So it made we call the method Lord Cats passing down the cat start text, text, file inside the Lord

Cats method.

We create an ArrayList.

Which is of type cash.

Then we call in the trai with resources.

Files dot lines were passing in the past.

Guests passing in the file of that.

We received it to this method that will come back with a path object which files dot lines will use

to create a stream of string.

The for each is a terminal operation which will kick off that particular stream.

And what are we going to do?

We're going to take in each line from the file, and we're going to break it up using the split method

into a string array.

So for the first line, Fido will be category zero and Black will go into category one.

We then create a new cat based on that, a pass added to our array list.

When we're finished, we return cats, which caused to the return on line 25.

We then do a cat's for each to output.

So there's two different for each is going on here.

Two for each.

Unlike 26 is the collection for each, whereas the for each and line 31 is the stream for each.

What's interesting to note here now is that the cats declared on line 29 cannot be changed inside the

lambda, which is declared on line 31.

That's because local variables in the scope of the lambda must be final or effectively final.

So in other words, I cannot change the cards to point to a new ArrayList.

However, I could have a side effect which is basically saying I can add cats to the ArrayList as long

as I don't change the reference cat itself.

So this is the search directory program.

You can see on line 11, I'm using the start path of let's get certified.

Forward slash now order two.

Let's get certified as my YouTube channel name.

Now I'm using the tray with resources on line 12.

That's important to prevent a resource leak in it.

I'm creating a stream of path using files dot find.

So that's going to return back a stream of path objects.

The first argument two files to find is the start path.

That we've created online.

11.

That's fine.

Ten indicates the depth of the search.

That's ten subdirectories.

That's absolutely more than needed in this case.

Then we've got the by predicate, which is very useful here.

This is going to come back with true or false.

And basically it comes back with true.

It'll put that path object into the stream, and if it's false, it won't.

So we've got a path.

And the second one is the attributes, the basic file attributes.

We're going to use bulleted here to determine if we want this particular file in the stream or not.

So is it a regular file?

We can use the attribute to determine that.

And does the path when we convert it to a string, does it end in Java?

So is it a regular file which ends in Java?

If it is, we want it part of the stream.

And if not, we want it ignored then unknown 15.

We use a for each to go through the stream and output it to the screen.

So let's run that.

And there you can see there are the Java files for this particular section of the course.

Now let's go back and change the path that we want to start out with the root of our directory search

to be let's get certified.

So this should list a lot more Java files because there's a lot more directories in that.

And there you can see there are the Java files that I have written as part, of course, so far.

Now let's focus on the last section.

Serializing and serializing Java objects.

What is serialization?

Well, civilization is the process of converting and in-memory Java object and saving it to file.

Decentralization is the opposite is the process of converting from a file to a Java object.

To inform Java that your class is surrealism, you implement the marker interface, serialism, and

that's with a Z.

America interface is an interface that has no methods.

And you apply serialism to data oriented classes as their status is not short lived.

As we're serializing objects, instance variables and not static variables are serialized.

One notable exception is the civil version uad their.

It is a static which is serialized as part of the serialization process.

What is it used for?

It is used to synchronize the class definition with the stored data.

For example, what if a new field had been inserted into the class definition which you were attempting

to do, serialize a file that had been serialized with the old class definition?

In other words, the data on file did not have the new field that is in the class definition now.

This resulted in an invalid class exception during the serialization.

The transient keyword.

What is that used for?

This is used to prevent a field from being serialized in America as transient, and it will be skipped

as part of the serialization process.

When being serialized, a transient field will revert to its default java value null for string or any

other type 040.04 double, etc. So a transit field will not be serialized when the file has been created.

But when you're DC realizing that back to an object, you need to put something in for that field because

it's in the class definition.

What happens is to get the default values.

In summary, other than the serial version used, only non transient instance members are serialized.

So you're transient fields.

You're static fuels.

They are not serialized except for that surreal version.

You.

Regarding your instance variables.

If they are types like personal cat and so on, ensure that they are serialized.

But also, for example, if pen is realizable and has an instance variable of type nib, then if you

are serialized in pen, nib must also be serialized, but I will see an example of that in code.

It would give you an exception.

Not a compiler, but an exception.

Serialization requires the use of two classes, the object output stream and the object input stream.

These classes are considered high level classes and will wrap lower level classes such as file output

stream and file input stream.

Typically we would start with a file stream, wrap it in a buffered stream to improve performance,

and then wrap the buffered stream with an object stream to access the serialization.

Do serialization methods write object and read object.

Let's have a look at some code now.

The first part that I want to concentrate on here was that pen nib.

Example where you're going to end up with an exception.

So you can see in Chinese I've got a class book which implements serialism.

Materialism is coming from the job that I'll package, so I need an import for that.

It contains a book marker.

Instance variable on line nine.

So if we go down now and look at book marker.

There you can see online 28 book marker implements serialize but that's fine.

Book marker has an image instance variable online 29.

However, online 32 you can see that the class image does not.

Implement serialism.

So when in Man, I go along and I wrap my file output stream in a buffered output stream in an object

output stream.

I create a book.

I set the author to Shawn Kennedy, and then I attempt to write out that book object using the right

object, which is coming from the object output stream class.

That's the way you serialize data.

I'm going to get an exception there because that image should be serialized.

But let's run that.

And there you can see not serialized exception is coming up and it's because of the image type.

So let's go back and fix that.

There are two ways we can fix it.

Fix number one is to make Image C realizable, so let's run that.

And there you can see there's no exception anymore.

The other fix is if image has to be left like that, well then I could go to where it is contained in

the book marker and make the image instance transient.

So now it will not attempt to serialize that image.

I want to run that.

I get no problems with that.

So the next thing I want to do is look at all three.

I want to set it up now so that it will serialize.

Okay.

So let me put this back to.

The image is been serialized.

So it's a serialized type, so that's fine.

I am writing out the author, which is Sean Kennedy.

I've got the code down here further, which I will borrow for to serialize in the book.

An old pace started there.

Now I need imports.

So I just had them in.

So it's a file import stream referring to book ACR.

Wrap that in a buffered input stream for efficiency performance and then wrap that in an object input

stream.

Then online 53 I going to call the read object method, which is in the object input stream.

Now that's going to come back with an object.

So I need to down cast that to a book and then I'll have a book reference, be referring to us.

And then I'll output what is coming on my book.

Now my book has a two string at the moment, which is just giving me back the author.

That's perfect.

That's what I want.

I just have a before and after.

Let's run that.

And there you can see before it's Sean Kennedy and after it's John Kennedy.

Now, what's interesting there.

Is that you can see on line 16, the constructor for book says that the author is on Unknown.

But down there online 45.

I'm changing the.

Author Sean Kennedy.

So therefore when we are serializing the book, we have just proven that the constructor is not called.

The constructor is not called otherwise.

I'd be getting honored for my author afterwards and I'm not even getting John Kennedy.

So to serialize John Kennedy as the author as the book object and it is do serialized it back the contents

correctly.

Now if I make this transit.

Watch what happens now.

There you go.

Beforehand, the details with Sean Kennedy.

It is a transient variable, so therefore it is not serialized.

So there is no details for author output in the file.

So when is reading it back in?

Because there is an instance variable called the alter.

It's got to put something in there.

And because it's a type, a string type, it gets the default for a type, which is not.

So the next version of this requires significant changes.

And then I'm going to bring in Hirsch and sent to us and the subtype will be serialized, but the parent

will not.

So what I'm going to prove here is that if your type is serialize able, then the constructor will not

be called as we've just seen here with the book.

However, if your parent is not serialized, then that constructor will be called during the serialization

process.

So I'm just going to copy and paste code, which I have done here at the bottom.

So let's look at what I have here now.

I've got a class called info medium with an instance variable.

The medium.

In the constructor.

It's been set to unknown.

This constructor is called When Serializing.

This class is not serialized.

The information was not realizable.

Then I've got simple set of get methods.

The book extends from the info medium implementing serialize, but so this book is serialized to the

book constructor however where it sets the author to on non.

It is not called when do serializing as this class is serialized, but it's important to realize that

if your class is too realizable, the constructor is not called during this serialization.

However, if your class is not serialized, then the constructor is called during the serialization.

I've got a two string online, 39 and 40 gives me back the medium, which is the parent instance variable

and the author, which is the current instance variable.

Because I want to see what is the value of the medium and what is the value of the author.

So we're done here in serialization, I'm creating a book, I'm setting the medium to print, setting

the author to show Kennedy outputting before I remember now book is serialized but for medium is not

so be nothing for the medium.

So when we come back to DC realized that book, the read object part of the process will be okay.

The book is serialized full, so John Kennedy will be serialized back in for the author.

However the parent which is info medium.

Is not.

So the medium would be initialized because it's a constructor there, so it'll be unknown.

So whenever the before should say print.

Shawn Kennedy and the after should say unknown.

Shawn Kennedy.

And there you can see before Sprint, Sean Kennedy and after his own known Sean Kennedy.

And the last thing I want to do now is to generate the invalid class exception where the class definition

is different to what stored on file.

So let's say I just put in another string.

I won't try to serialize it now.

I'll just try to do serialize given how the class definition has changed.

There you can see invalid class exception.

And there you can see the serial version.

IDs are different.

No, I haven't put one in, so it's obviously generated somewhere in the background.

But typically that's what you're going to use the serial version used for to make sure that the class

definition matches what's stored on the external file.

Now we can also actually insert our own code into the serialization process.

This will be very useful for any customization code that we may want to use.

For example, we may be storing sensitive data that we do not want to store in plaintext, so may want

to encrypt us before we store and then we will decrypt it on the way back.

Let's look at how we customize serialization for our own purposes.

So I've created another class here, important book, which is serialized.

I have an author and ISBN and I have an author age over my serial version UAD.

On lines 21 to 24.

I'm defining an object stream field array.

This array specifies the fields that you want to serialize.

If you look at it from a security perspective, it's like a whitelist where some fields marked as transient

is like an element that is blacklisted from the point of view of security.

It will not be stored at all.

So you can think of this object stream field array as the opposite to transient.

Transient says Do not write out this particular field.

Object stream field means output this particular field.

So on 922 we want to output author and 23 we want to output ESPN by virtue of the fact that Author three

is not included in this array.

That effectively means that all three rage is transient.

It will not be able to serialize file.

There is a regular constructor and two string.

I'm opening Arthur Edge just to show you something at the end.

Here is our custom code.

We have two particular methods that we can insert here.

Lines 38 to 44 is the right object.

This is for customizing the serialization aspect.

Only 39.

We use a field of type object output streamed output field and we get access to that by calling the

put fields method in the object output stream.

That gives us access to the fields in a way of saying we are going to push the name of this field with

this value.

As we can see on lines 41 to 42 where we say push alter with the instance variable, alter and push

this particular field, which is called ESPN and give it the value ESPN.

And then we write fields using the object output stream.

So we call put fields on the object output stream at the start to gives access to this port field.

And then we use the push method on this port field to insert the data with particular names.

To customize the serialization process is the exact opposite.

We've got a read object method that we put in now and it's passed in the object input stream.

Now we use the object input stream.

The method read fields.

And that gives us a get field.

Once we have the jet filled, we will call the get method and then we'll name the field and then we

can pass in the second argument, which is null in both cases.

This is what will come back if there is no value for that particular field.

So in line 49, we're looking for the author and we'll cast it to a string and online 50.

We're looking for ESPN and we're cast to a string as well.

The rest of the serialization code is same.

We create a file output stream, wrap it in a buffered output stream, wrap it in an object output stream.

We create our book and then we call the write object, which is going to call our own cluster method.

No.

Then we serialize it afterwards.

And again, it's going to call our custom read object method.

So let's run that.

And there you can see Joe Bloggs with that particular ISBN is serialized.

Now that's a two string call we created with your blogs whose age is 35.

However, when we do serializing it, we get back to your blogs because that was serialized.

We get back the same ISBN because that was also serialized, but the author age was not serialized.

So we end up with a default value.

It is an int default value for an entry is zero.

So that's how you would customize the serialization process.

So from a security perspective, if you wanted to encrypt your data, it's at lines 41 and 42, you

would do that.

But then you've got to decrypt it, of course, when you're serializing online, 49 and 50.

In this section I want to look at local variable type inference.

LV t i.

Java is a strongly typed language.

In other words, you must specify the type of a variable when you are introducing it.

However, since Java ten, we have the option in certain situations of using the keyword via instead

of specifying the type.

In these situations, the compiler infers the type.

For example, there x is a double quotes.

ABC X is inferred by the compiler to be of type string.

Remember that the variables must be local and they must be initialized on the line where they are declared.

So here, for example, you can't declare your variables in this space here, which is outside all of

the methods and within the class.

That's where your instance variables go.

That's for your class variables, cause neither of those are local, so neither of them are allowed

to be vias inside the method here.

That's where your local variables are.

So you can see here var x is assigned to y's and 3.2 and T is assigned to ABC, meaning X, Y and Z

are interval and string respectively.

Remember to initialize your vars on the lines where you declare them.

I'd like to have a more detailed look at the rules surrounding VARs.

Looking at a program number one.

Where can they be used to remember their local?

So they are inside blocks of code like constructors methods or initialization blocks.

So that's number one.

Let's look down through the code.

Here's number one.

This is just an instance initialization block.

It's inside the class, but it's not inside any methods.

So you can see there there's the class, curly brackets, there's the instance initialization block

and there is a local variable decoration.

VAR is assigned 4.5.

This variable D is now a double.

Here.

I'm inside a constructor.

There is a sign nine.

So I know an inch.

And then I'm inside of method here.

Main there is a signed double.

ABC so s is now a string.

So they're valid declarations of look local variable type inference where the compiler infers the type.

Where can you not use them?

Number two Well, you can use them as constructor parameters or method parameters or static class variables.

Remember their local.

And there is one caveat and that's where lambdas where the parameter type can be inferred.

Let's look at that.

So here I have an instance variable declared outside all the methods put inside the curly brackets of

the class not allowed.

Var is not allowed here.

There's a class variable.

It's static.

Var is not allowed there either.

Here is two I've tried to put in there x as my parameter to my constructor.

Not allowed.

Here's an ordinary method where I try to put in var x is not allowed there either.

Even though I'm calling it with one.

It doesn't infer that it's an integer.

It's just not allowed.

And then the caveat was, we'll look at this list here.

I'm adding A, A and B and I'm calling the remove.

If so, it's passing in a predicate.

And basically it will remove every A in this case.

So it's a predicate, which is a test method.

Test method takes in one argument and it returns a boolean that's going to evaluate to true or false.

Now because we're working off a list of string java nors if I go down to its barebones.

The TARDIS is a string.

So it's legal to put the voucher in there.

Okay.

That's one caveat with it.

But normally.

Format, the parameters just don't do it.

B The constructors are normal regular methods.

Number three, a variable is always initialized on the same statement where it is declared.

For example, var x is assigned s, making x and int.

So let's look at that.

Their X semicolon x is assigned to.

That is a problem.

These two statements need to be one statement.

In other words.

X is assigned to semicolon.

That semicolon finishes the statement.

You can't have them over.

Two statements basically cannot infer the type for local variable x.

You cannot use var on variable without an initial either.

So we've got plenty of examples where we do it in one statement like there.

And like their.

But that three, there is a problem.

Number four, the value of a can change, but the type cannot.

So let's have a look at that.

So here.

We've declared.

De Verde is saying 4.5.

It is now a double.

It's like put in there.

So the value has changed from 4.5 to 98.9.

However, I can go along and change it to double quotes as that really shouldn't come as a surprise

to anyone.

It's now double because of the type inference from there.

Yes, you can change the value that's in there, but you can't change its actual type.

Number five, there cannot be simply initialized to null cast and null to a type first.

What do I mean by that?

Well, here is the problem.

Okay.

It doesn't know what type to infer.

That is a novel, which means it's a reference type.

But is G supposed to be a string, a double, an integer?

If you've got a person or a car or a cache or a dog, it doesn't know.

It does know so.

But you have to cast, first of all.

No, it says, oh, I know it's supposed to be a string.

So just don't initialize.

It's not like that.

It cannot infer the type.

Number six var not allowed in multivariable declarations.

So here, as you can see, it is a three cover.

Please sign four is not a problem.

Can do that would fire.

Seven.

Var is a reserved name, but not a reserved word.

So in other words we can say var fa is assigned is.

So the identifier in this instance, in this context is okay, which are type names like classes, interfaces

and in OMS are not allowed.

So there's the fire virus.

Okay.

But if you name your class or your enum or your interface where you're going to get a problem.

I want to know.

Have a look at private interface methods.

Introduced in Java nine interfaces can now have private methods.

These private methods can be both static and non static.

As they are private, they are accessible within the interface only.

As with classes, you cannot access a non static interface method from a static method.

There have to advantages.

One is to reduce code duplication and the other is to improve code encapsulation.

Let's have a look at this in code so you can see on lines three, four and five.

I have comments there.

Why were private interface methods introduced when one was to reduce code duplication and the other

one was to improve encapsulation by hiding implementation details?

We look at both of these now.

Here I have an interface inefficient tennis.

There's lots of code duplication here.

I have three methods in here a static one, a default one, and another default one.

Forehand, backhand and smash, respectively.

Each of them have got three system development lines move into position, hitting a forehand, move

back into ready position.

That's the first one.

The forehand.

Backhand is very similar, except it's hitting a backhand and smash.

Very similar, except it's hitting a smash.

Let's look at how we could write in Java nine a more efficient interface.

So now you can see interface tennis.

There's a lot less code involved.

I've now introduced a method which takes in a string and the variable is called stroke.

It is a private static method.

Obviously to have code in there.

It has to be static or default.

And I'm putting movement position which was common across the methods in the previous version and moved

back into ready position was also common.

This is called duplication has been addressed already.

Hitting a particular stroke than is what's online 30.

So I've got a four eye method which is static, just to mix up the various method types I've got at

934, I've got a default back and one and then I've got another private one called Smash Unknown 35

and each of these call that private his method.

Remember, we're inside the interface, so I can call it I've access to it.

So I'm hitting the 433, hitting the back online 34 and hitting the smash on line 35.

So I can call the private static method called hit from a static context.

That's no problem.

From a default method, that's no problem.

I'm from another private method.

That's no problem either.

That's addressing the code duplication.

So we went.

As you can see, the interface inefficient tennis lots of duplication called there to a lot less in

the interface tennis.

What about point to which was to improve encapsulation by hiding implementation details?

Well, let's look at Main here.

I'm declaring tennis type.

That's the reference called tennis and it's new professional tennis.

With that tennis reference, I cannot access the hit method.

There is no he's.

I get a compiler error if I try to call.

There is no method called Hitler.

Can it be applied?

It is encapsulated inside in the tennis interface.

It is private to us, so I cannot access it.

Now I can access the backhand and I can.

That's the forehand.

That's the static method.

So I will use the interface name itself tennis to access that.

If I run that.

Moving into position, hitting the backhand, moving back into the ready position, moving into position,

hitting a forehand and moving back into the right position.

Now, notice that if I go up here.

And take the static off that.

I've got a problem on line 33.

Calling a non static method from a static context or a static method is a problem.

And that's what the comments on line 24, 25 and 26 are explaining.

If you're in a class, for example, I'll duplicate that very quickly down here in Maine.

And I come along and I'll put in a method.

Just call it X.

It's an instance method.

And if I go along here.

And I tried to call.

From a static method.

I've got a problem.

I would need an instance of private interface methods to be able to call that it's an instance method.

So it needs an instance.

And there you can see now the error has gone away.

So that's the same idea here.

If you're inside a static method, you can call a non static method.

And the last thing was just very simply, you might think, Oh yeah, I can just go and quote something

like that.

You can't.

That is an abstract method by default.

And they cannot have a method body.

That's what the complaint is.

They're.

Abstract methods cannot have the body.

So I come back out and I'll put static back in here.

Now let's try and make that default and see what happens.

Ken Static is going to have a problem there.

So it's essentially if you're inside a static method, you want to call another method inside the interface.

That other method needs to be static, static to static.

Note also that private and default those two modifiers can not be put together because they both mean

two different things.

The default is intended to be used by types that implements the interface, whereas private means that

it's just private to the interface.

And if I make it static, the arrow goes away.

So that's the private interface methods, why they were introduced, the rules around them and examples

in code.
